Adding icons is super straightforward.
In a react native app that uses Expo.
We can get rid of the button import by the way.
We don't need to build in button anymore.
But back to the icons because our icon can be added by importing something from.
And now it's at Expo slash vector icons.
Might be a bit of a strange package name but that's just what it is.
It's part of the Expo toolkit so to say it's automatically included in any React Native project you
created with Expo.
And there you can import components that help you render icons and a pretty nice component there is
the ionic bonds component for that you simply have to know that there are different I can sets which
are built into expo or into this vector I could s package to be precise I unicorns as one set of icons
managed by the team behind iconic in the end so the icons which are included in that set are managed
by that iconic team and I'm really just talking about the icons here.
This has nothing to do with us adding anything from ionic to direct risk native app we're just using
their icons.
You also got other icon sets like evil icons material icons so a lot of icon sets you can use.
And a great place to learn about all included icons and get an overview of all the included icons is
the official Expo icons documentation which you find attached to this video as well.
A link to this documentation and there you can not only learn more about how to use them but you'll
also find a link to the icons directory and that is a long list of all the included icons you can use
and you always see to which I can package this belongs.
You can also search for I can stare like remove to find all icons that have something to do with removing
stuff and then you see that there is something from the ionic coins package something from the material
icons package and so on.
Now the icons I searched for it in advance are from the ionic cons package.
So here all import ionic pins from Expo vector icons and this not automatically is a component we can
use in our J as X code to output an icon.
And if we would have used material against that would also be a component just to output a material
icon.
But I want to use an ionic an icon so I'll use that and I'll go down to the J as X code and instead
of using lower here I'll actually output such a ionic and such a I can hear in my button and the great
thing is such a I can here can also be nested into our button even though what we're outputting here
props children is instead of a text node but that is supported you can output icon component in that
text component as well so that will work.
So back to this ironic in here though right now I'm not saying anything about the icon I want to use
and there the icon I picked in advance has a name of MDA dash remove.
Now you tell react native and kind of Expo that you want to use that icon by adding the name prop here
on ionic coins and then this takes a string with the I can name which you find in that directory right.
So here I picked this I can hear which I want to use.
So that's the name MDA dash remove which we now use here.
So that's the I can name we add here.
Next you can also set up the icon size and pixels and here I'll go with 24 to have a nice big icon and
also the color does icon should have and here I'll set this to have a white color.
Now I'll copy that and use the same on the greater button but there of course the icon is a different
one.
Here I picked MDA ad as an icon and you can of course explore that list of icons and pick different
icons if you want to and you can also try a different icon package instead of ionic icons or even use
to different icon packages in one and the same component.
You don't have to stick to one icon package only you can mix and match them as you want.
So we could render an eye on a can here and render a material icon here.
But of course you should ensure that the overall look of your app makes sense.
So if you're mixing icons too wildly chances are that it's not going to look that good.
So typically you want to stick to one set but you don't have to technically.
So here I picked these two icons and now with that if we safeties we start a new game here.
Now we got a plus and a minus icon here to indicate where the numbers should be lower or higher.
And that is pretty nice in my opinion because that gives us a whole new way of building user interfaces
because with icons we really have another important tool for building great user experiences.